OpenLDAP 1.0 README

    This is the OpenLDAP version 1.0 distribution.

	For a description of what this distribution contains, see the
	ANNOUNCEMENT file in this directory.  For a description of
	changes from previous releases, see the CHANGES file in this
	directory.  For a more detailed description of how to make an
	install the distribution, see the INSTALL file in this directory.

	For more information:
		http://www.OpenLDAP.org/

MAKING AND INSTALLING THE DISTRIBUTION

    You should be able to make and install the distribution with a pretty
    standard default configuration by typing the following commands

	% make
		this will copy Make-common.dist to Make-common.
		Edit Make-common as desired.
	% make 
		this will build the system
	% su
	# make install

    in this directory.  This should produce something that basically
    works.

    You will probably want to do a little configuration to suit your
    site, though.  There are two files you might want to edit:

	Make-common
		contains default definitions for where things will be
		installed, where to find various things, etc.  These defaults
		are used in absense of platform-specific defaults.  You may
		hardcode settings in Make-common if you desire.  You will
		need to edit this file to enable optional features.

	build/*/Make-platform
		contains platform-specific defaults.

	include/ldapconfig.h.edit
		This file contains #defines used by many parts of the
		distribution.  You'll at least want to change DEFAULT_BASE.

    See the INSTALL file in this directory for more information.

DOCUMENTATION

    There are man pages for most programs in the distribution and
    routines in the various libraries.  See ldap(3) for details.

    There is an OpenLDAP homepage available that contains the latest
    LDAP news, releases announcements, pointers to other LDAP resources,
    etc. You can access it at this URL:

	http://www.OpenLDAP.org/

FEEDBACK / PROBLEM REPORTS / DISCUSSIONS

    We would appreciate any feedback you can provide.  If you have
    problems, report them to this address:

	OpenLDAP-bugs@OpenLDAP.org

