1) driver name comparison for MS SQL Server workaround is realy kinda dirty
   hack, but for now i don't know how to code it more carefully
2) another dirty hack: length of LONGVARCHAR and LONGVARBINARY fields is
   currently set to MAX_ATTR_LEN. Maybe such fields must be handled with
   SQLGetData() instead of SQLBindCol(), but it is said in documentation,
   that it is guaranteed to work only when such column goes after last bound
   column. Or should we get ALL columns with SQLGetData (then something like 
   _SQLFetchAsStrings() wrapper would do SQLGetData() for all columns)...
4) in some cases (particularly, when using OpenLink Generic ODBC driver with
   MS SQL Server), it returns "Function sequence error" after all records are
   fetched. I really don't know what it means, and after all
    - it works with any other driver I tried
5) referral handling. this bug actually addresses all backends, as I can
   understand. draft-ietf-ldapext-namedref-xx.txt says that referral should be
   returned for ANY object containing "ref" attribute. And is_entry_referral
   macro designed for "referral" objectclass only. This limits usability of
   referrals too much. For instance, I could want to replicate some subtree on
   another server, storing just "searchable" attributes + referral to full
   object, and then use this subtree as kind of index for query routing.
   If search returns referrals only for "referral" entries - I cannot do such
   thing
6) DO NOT EVER USE -O2 option (or any other optimization) under Un*x/gcc!!!
   I have spent days trying to catch weird bugs, which went gone with optimization off
7) The same thing that works on RedHat 6.0 (glibc 2.1.1), dumps core on
   6.1 (glibc 2.1.2) (the same code behaves differently when built on 6.0 and 6.1)
   my problem was solved by upgrading iODBC to 3.0 beta - but it is kinda strange
   that beta works better than release (and release still works fine on 6.0)
9) ldapsearch sometimes refuses to show some attributes ("NOT PRINTABLE" diags)
   on Win32 (on linux everything's fine -- at least with mySQL)
   