Copyright (c) 1998-1999 NeoSoft, Inc.

For licensing information, see the file neoXldap.c and the COPYRIGHT
file contains in the directory you found this file.

This directory contains an extension to Tcl to interface with an
LDAP server.  While this software is being released to the OpenLDAP
community, it is the authors' intention that support continue (and
be added) for other client libraries as well.  As time goes on, it
is expected that code will converge rather than diverge.

Support is provided for University of Michigan LDAP version 3.3,
OpenLDAP, and Netscape.

It uses GNU autoconf.  It builds and installs without requiring
parallel directories, but it does require that Tcl and Extended Tcl
are installed in the directory pointed to by --prefix (/usr/local
by default).

For further info, try "./configure --help".

For example, I run:

    ./configure  --prefix=/opt/neosoft97 --enable-shared \
	--with-ldap=/usr/isp2000/ldap

Remember that --prefix must be the same prefix used when building
and installint Tcl.

Netscape configuration has not been well tested, and you may have to
play with the resulting Makefile to get it to work.  In particular,
you will probably need to modify the LDAP_LIBFLAGS.  However, the
C code itself is reasonably well tested with Netscape.

This module will install a regular shell (ldaptclsh) a windowing
shell (ldapwish) a library, a pkgIndex.tcl, and a manpage (ldap.n).

If your Tcl installation has been configured with --enable-shared,
then it is highly recommended that you also use --enable-shared
here.

Shared libraries and Tcl packages.

If Tcl is built with --enable-shared, and OpenLDAP (or another version
for that matter) has been build to create -llber and -lldap as shared
libaries, and you build ldaptcl with --enable-shared, it should be
possible to run a plain Tcl interpreter (eg. tclsh8.0) and do

		package require Ldaptcl

which will install the "ldap" command into the interpreter.

This may require that you set the LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable
appropriately, or use -R or -W,-rpath ld command options.
It also may require that you modify the 
If you configure with --enable-shared, and you have shared libraries
for -lldap and -llber, then you might be able to
"package require Ldaptcl", provided that everything is set up
exactly right, ie. -R ld flags, LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variables,
etc.

This package was test built on a Sparc Solaris 2.5 using the SUN Pro C
compiler.

You may email comments or bug fixes to openldap-devel@OpenLDAP.org,
or to kunkee@OpenLDAP.org.
